Okay. Alright. So today we'll be doing workshop
two, and so we're building up we're building
on our okay. We're building on workshop one
where we built this profile page. And now
we're going to build a feed page where
we can sort of have our Facebook like
posts and comments and things like that. So
we'll be using all the stuff that Andy
talked about in the last Hooks lecture. So
we're going build the front end where we
have posts and also comments, and we'll add
on the back end tomorrow. And this is
sort of what we're going for today. To
get started, it's the normal steps for our
workshops. Reset hard, check out wt starter, and
then you can always use the questions doc
or the queue when you need help throughout
the workshop. This is what our component hierarchy
our component tree looks like from workshop one.
So we have the app, we have our
profile in alpha bar, and then we just
had the little clicker item. But now we
want to make it a little bit more
complicated, have our whole feed where we have
posts and then comments within those posts. Again,
this is what we want to go for.
So we want to create the feed page.
We'll do some routing so that we can
get between the profile page and the feed
page. And then, yeah, let's just get started
and npm run dev to view your cat
book. Mine is on localhost 500174 because I
think there's something else on the port. But
yours should be on 500173 if you have
nothing else running. Okay. So to start, we'll
do a quick warm up. Commands to get
caught up are always in the top right.
And throughout this workshop, we're going to have
a bunch of steps. And you can always
use the little search bar on the left
or command shift f, and then you can
search step zero or step one or step
two, etcetera, to find the steps you're looking
for. So our warm up will be step
zero, and we want to import feed. Js
instead of profile to get something that looks
like this. And you can have a couple
minutes to do that. Okay. So I'll go
over how to do this one now. So
first thing we want to look is we
kind of want to see where feed is
with respect to where you want to import
it into. And if we look in our
sidebar here, we're working in app. Jsx, but
feed is within pages. So if you want
to import it, we can do the same
thing as we see a profile being imported.
And we just import feed. And you can
see that the feed file exports feed here,
export default feed. And so to render it,
We just do the same thing as profile.
We do the fake HTML component with self
closing tag. And now we can comment out
profile for now. And then if we go
over the profile page, we see what we
want. It just says this is a feed,
but it doesn't have anything yet because we
haven't filled it in. Okay. So now let's
get started with step one, which is just
rendering a single story component. And reset hard
and check out step one to get started.
So step two is going to be another
or this should say step one. Step one
is going be another exercise. So in feed.
Js we want to render a single story
component. So right now we have nothing in
feed. Js, we just have a div with
some filler text. And if we look inside
modules, we have a file called single story.
And single story is also not filled in
yet. It just has some filler text. But
we want to fill it in with something
to get something that oh, wait, this slide
is out of order. Oh wait, no it's
fine. All right. So yeah, we want something
that looks like this. Ignore the stuff at
the bottom there. But yeah, we just want
a name which is in bold and then
some content rendered here. And if we look
inside our single story, we have a docstring
here which tells us which props are being
passed into single story. So we have IDs,
your name and content. We want to use
these props to render something that looks like
the picture on the slide. And you can
also look inside card. Css for appropriate CSS
files to try to create the component. And
we're also on step one even though the
slides say step two. So for this one,
we can start by just rendering in a
single story after we import it. So single
story. And your editor should usually fill in
the import line. And then we do the
same thing as before. And then just put
in single story. So if we do that
for now, for now, we just get that
this is a single story text. And now
we want to actually fill it in with
props. So we want to display the creator
name and content. We already have the CSS
card story filled in. And then to fill
in the first heading, could do I mean,
doesn't really matter, but we could just do
h1. And then class name and set it
to ubold. Actually, let me open up card
CSS. Ubold. And then put in the creator
name by using props. And then we can
add the actual content. And we can use
the Card Story content. And now we want
to actually use the props, so we fill
that in with the attributes from where single
story is called. So you can set them
in here. Then something. And then right now,
we don't actually do anything with the IDs
yet, but we can just pass in some
dummy value. And yeah. So then we get
the heading and then the content passed in
through the prop. That's step one. You can
check out W2 Step two to get the
result and catch up. So step two, we're
going to create a story state to maintain
the stories within our feed. And this will
just be a follow along. Right now we're
just going to be hard coding our list
of stories. So tomorrow in our next workshop
we'll be working on having some sort of
backend that serves our stories. But for right
now we're just working on the front end
and hard coding some stories within our state.
And since we want to render a bunch
of stories within our feed, we want to
hold this story state within we want to
hold this story state within feed because that
holds which stories should be rendered. So to
start, can just use the normal commands to
write down to create a new state. So
we can create a state called stories with
its setter, set stories, and then use a
useState hook. And initially, there we can just
set the default value to be an empty
list, and then we'll fill in this empty
list later. When we fill in this empty
list is in here inside of the useEffect.
Inside of the useEffect we to we can
just hard code some states on render because
it's an empty bracket. So we can just
create some stories. And you can see that
the format has to be here. We just
have to have three values, which are the
ID, creator name, and content. So We can
just create a set random IDs, creator name,
person one, and then content one. And then
I'll just create a list of them because
in the future we'll to have we'll want
to be able to list render a list
of different stories. So I'll create more than
one. And then to actually set the state,
use the setStories function, which is created by
the useState hook. And then we can set
stories to be a list of story one,
story two, and story three. And lastly, just
to see what this list looks like, I'll
render it with the single story, with JSON.
Stringify. And all this does is it takes
a JSON object and then turns it into
something readable. And that's going to be JavaScript,
so we surround it in the curly brackets
and then just pass in stories. So if
we take this and then reload, we see
we get a list of IDs and creator
names and contents rendered here. So this is
just hardcoded stories for now and then they
still change in the future. Now we have
multiple stories, and so far we've just rendered
this one story down here. So we want
to figure out how to render a list
of these stories which can be variable. So
check out W2 Step three. So this will
be another follow along and we sort of
want we want to render our stories that
are in our list and we have a
component to render a single story, which is
called single story. And we need to somehow
go from our list of information to a
list of components. So yesterday we talked about
the map function and the map function just
takes in some list and then some function
and then applies the function to everything in
the list. So in our case, we have
a list of just information, a list of
JSON objects, and then we want to have
instead a list of components, which is something
that can be rendered by the JSX. So
we can use the map function to do
this and have some function that goes from
just a list of information to a list
of the actual components. So to do this,
we use the map function syntax and then
we'll create a variable to hold that new
list of single stories. And also one other
functionality want to also work with is create
a fallback for when there are no stories
in the stories list. So to do this
most easily, we'll create some variable to hold
our list of stories. And then first we'll
check if there are stories at all. So
we can check the length of the array.
And if it's not equal to zero, then
we can render the actual stories. But if
it is equal to zero, we can set
stories list to the no stories div that
you want to render instead. But if there
are stories, then we can use the map
function. And the map function takes in you
just put a dot after the list you
want to apply the map to, and then
you input the function that you want to
apply. So the function we want apply is
if we have some story, then we want
to return a single story. And if we
want to implicitly return, we can just use
parentheses. And we can create a single story
component. And we want to pass in the
props. So if we have a story object
which has ID, creator, name, and content, then
we can just directly pass in the props
that way. So ID is going to be
equal to the stories ID, and then the
content is going to be equal to the
stories content, and then creator name is the
same. So this creates a stories list, which
is equal to there aren't any stories if
there aren't any stories at all, and otherwise
it maps it into a list of single
stories. Now instead of just putting as JSON.
Stringify of the stories, we can now input
our stories list. And if we reload, we
see that the three stories that we have
within our story state is rendered. And now
we can check whether our fallback works by,
let's say we just delete the hard coded
stories here and then just make it an
empty list. Then we get the render, there
aren't any stories. And if we change it
back, we get the stories again. Okay. So
that was step three. I'm going a little
fast just because we're a bit behind. And
our last step before we break will be
step four, new story. So reset hard and
check out step four. So step four will
be another follow along. And now we're going
to create a framework for inputting these stories.
So this is to so we want a
framework where we can modify the story state
because we have a method to render stories
based on a variable state of stories. And
so now we just need to create something
that can modify it. So this step is
a bit long, and you can check all
the places we need to modify for step
four. So to start, alright. To start, we
have this starter file called, called new post
input, called new post input dot jsx. And
in here we have this starter component that
we've made, and it's called new post input.
And can kind of take a look at
it and try to parse what's going on.
But I think it'll be easier to see
if we just render it to start. So
if you look at the rendering, it sort
of just has a box and then a
Submit button. And basically, the new post input
is a nicely wrapped component where it takes
in a number of props, which is default
text, and then a callback function. And All
right. Yeah. So it takes in a callback
function and then some default text to render.
So if we pass in those props and
then let me see that we get some
default text within the post box. So the
reason that we have this more general component
called new post input instead of separate new
story input and new comment inputs is that
in the future when we input in a
when we start creating the comment section and
then a functionality for adding more comments, we
might want to have different callback functions for
when the comment's submitted and different functionality when
or different default text. So having a general
component like this, you can use as a
child component for both new story and new
component is nice because it makes it reusable.
So so now we'll create the actual new
story component, which is more specific to new
story rather than just a generic submission box.
So to start, guess we can just we'll
start in the feed file actually, because we
want to have this new story input to
modify the story state within the feed. And
the best way to do that is to
start by creating a function within the feed,
because that's where the story state resides. Because
otherwise, if you wanted to actually modify the
stories object, then you'd have to pass that
down into new story input. And it's more
messy to pass these objects around, so this
is just best practice. So we can create
add new story, which takes in some story.
And then after that, we want to modify
the story state. So we can use the
setStories function for that, and then we can
use the syntax with the dot dot dots
to have all the current set of stories,
and then add in the new story. And
then this is something that we're going to
pass down into new post input in a
sec. So within our new story function, have
another callback function called add story. And this
is a little bit repetitive, but this will
make more sense tomorrow when we do more
functionality within the add story function here besides
just calling add new story. So we're going
to pass the prop add new story into
new story and then just actually add the
new story. So this value here that we
take in is just going to be I
deleted the submission box. But it's just going
to be the text you put into the
submission box and then we want we're going
to want to do something for that submission
box. And in this case, we're going to
want to add a new story based on
that submission box. So the new story object
is going to be something like the one
over here. So we can just create a
random ID. I'll just put random. And then
put the creator name. Since right now we
don't have any better info about who's actually
creating it, we'll just call it anonymous. And
then for the actual content here, we can
use the value that's passed in through the
submission box. So this add story function in
new story, when triggered, is going to input
this new value into add new story, which
will accordingly update the story's state within feed.
Now the last thing we need to do
is just integrate this callback function that we
created with new post input. This new post
input lets us lets us submit a prop
called on submit, which is triggered when a
value is submitted. We can now return a
new post input and then we could set
the default text to just like enter your
story here, and then create an on submit,
and then set the on submit function to
be equal to this add story function that
we just created. So now we have a
set of functions that updates the story state,
and then now we've put that into the
new story component, which is exported into feed.
And then we can actually just render it
at the top of our list. And we're
going to want to pass in the prop
add new story, which is just called add
new story. So, yeah, if you see that,
we see the enter story here, default text
is filled in. And hopefully if we put
in a new story and click submit, the
story state is updated and now we can
add stories to our website. And you can
just keep on adding things and the list
will just grow with the new stories that
you add. All right, yeah. So that was
that last step was kind of a lot.
Are there any questions about creating the multiple
callback functions to update the story state? If
not, you can always add more questions to
the questions doc and put yourself in the
queue if you're behind. And if you want
to get the actual result for what we
did in step four, just reset hard and
check out W2 step five. And you should
get the same functionality. Okay. Yeah, I think
we're going to pause here. Okay. I think
we can get started again. Does anyone wanna
sort of say what they think about the
first one? Like, why do we have a
separate new post input component instead of having
two independently coded new story and new comment
components? I don't wanna give a shot at
this. Yeah. Like why do we do we
abstract some of the functionality away into new
post input instead of just creating a new
story and then creating a new comment and
not having the new post input? Okay. I
kinda answered the question in the question, but
it's like it's good for abstraction because when
we have common functionalities because the new story
and the new comment are gonna look very
similar. They both have an input and a
submit button, and they both send or do
some behavior to an array. We wanna abstract
all that functionality away so that we write
as little repetitive code as possible. And this
is just good coding practice in general applied
to web development. So what are some things
that are common to all the new blank
components? Well, new story, I guess, like all
the things that are common are gonna be
inside the new post input component because new
story calls new post input, and then new
comment also calls new post input, eventually. But,
I guess I already said this, they both
have an input area where you type in
text. They both have a submit button, and
then they both have some function that you
call whenever you press that submit button. And
then, finally, the on submit prop for a
new story component. You can always trace down
you can always trace down the props of
these components. Again, it's a tree, so there's
one one unique path. If we look at
a new story component, We return another component,
the new post input, and we pass in
on submit as a prop, or add story
as a prop for the on submit prop.
And add story is this callback function that
we define in the component. Essentially, callback function
is called whenever the submit button inside the
new post input is called is pressed. And
because the new story and the new comment
will have different callback functions that are called
whenever you press the submit button, that's why
we have the functions defined inside new story
and new comment respectively, instead of defining them
both inside new post input. So we have
to pass that callback function into the on
submit prop, which is then used and accessed
here props.onsubmit. Okay. Any questions about the first
five steps? Okay. Yeah. So, so far, and
I think it's pretty helpful to really take
a look at steps two, three, and four,
because you're gonna see very similar steps in
steps six through eight. So far in step
zero, we just simply replaced feed with profile.
And then in step one, we created a
hard coded state for the stories. In step
two, we rendered a single story component using
the dummy data from the state. In step
three, we took our state, which is an
array, and then we mapped that array to
an array of JSX elements. I guess, sorry,
an array of components, specifically single stories. And
then finally in step four, we added a
text box in at the top here so
that you can add a new story. You
can type something, and then press submit, and
it shows up at the end. Okay. So
step five is gonna be conceptually break away
from all of this. And it's gonna be
a bit new slash confusing probably. It's honestly
a mini lecture within this workshop. But our
next task is to add navigation within the
website. And all of you have seen navigation
before. Sorry. When you visit any URL, you
see that this URL, the domain is like
docs.google.com. Then afterwards, see the slash presentation and
then slash d. All of this. All of
this determines what we show to the front.
And pretty much all these websites use routing.
So what's our end goal? Our end goal
is to have something that looks like this.
We want to be able to toggle between
the different components based on what URL we're
at. So to specify the exact definition of
URL, this is gonna be the base URL.
It could be like catbook.com. In our case,
it's localhost colon 50 one 70 three, and
then plus whatever route path you append after.
By default, the route path is gonna be
like a forward slash, which is equivalent to
having no route path. So these two URLs
are gonna do the same thing, except in
very specific nuanced cases, I think. And then
you can do something like catbook.com/profile, and this
should show you a different page from catbook.com
with just a forward slash. And then, at
least in our example, if we have some
URL that has some random route path, we
wanna show a not found component, because this
path doesn't actually make any sense to us.
We only have two valid paths for the
user. Either the base path, the base URL,
or the base URL plus the profile path.
Visually, it's gonna look like this. And I
realize it's really small, but this says 5173,
and this shows our feed. So this is
the base URL. And then this one is
localhost 50 one 70 three slash profile. And
at this route, at the slash profile route,
we wanna show the profile component. And then
finally, if we have some random thing like
asdf or anything else that's not a forward
slash or a profile, we've already created this
component for you inside the code. It's called
not found dot jsx. And we can just
import it. But we want to render that
whenever we reach some random path that we
don't recognize. So any questions about what our
goal is with these routes? Okay. While I'm
talking, you can also just check out step
five if you haven't already. But for routing,
the I guess, standard way to do it
is using a library called React Router. There
are many router packages. In fact, in the
past we used to teach one called Reach
Router. All of them behave sort of differently,
but the main core ideas are all the
same. It sort of tells React how to
handle when you're at different URLs which components
to render. React Router is gonna be discussed
in a future lecture. We're gonna go a
lot more into what's actually happening underneath the
hood. And for this lecture, because we have
such a simple router setup, we only have
two pages, the feed and the profile. You
don't actually need to know exactly what's going
on to be able to code this up.
Okay. So this isn't something that you have
to do because we've already set this up
for you, but in general whenever you need
an external package, you have to go to
your package dot JSON file inside your code.
So I'm gonna open that up real quick
just to show you. In package dot JSON,
you can go under dependencies and see all
the packages that you're dependent on. This is
pretty similar to when you're in a Python
environment, if you've worked with that before, and
you have PIP, there's a lot of package
managers for you, like PIP, Conda. Yeah, there's
a lot of different things. We use NPM,
node package manager, and then once we specify
a package in here, specifically like React Router
DOM, and then give it a version, This
meaning that the version has to be at
least six point o o, and then we
run NPM install. This is what actually lets
us use all the code inside of this
package. So just to show you that if
I delete my node modules and then try
going back to the website, maybe it shouldn't
work. Oh, maybe it still does work. But
I wouldn't be able to do anything with
a router, so I need to npm install
so that I have access to this package.
Okay. Enough about that. So part one for
creating a router. And this is gonna be
a follow along. So if you could please
pull up index dot jsx. And notice that
index dot jsx is the root React component.
And you know this because or this is
where you're defining the root React component. Because
you see this code that says React DOM
dot create root document dot get element by
ID root, and this is rendering app. We
saw this in the lecture from this morning,
but in the root component is where you
should do all of your router logic. Part
one, I'm just gonna uncomment all these imports.
We import from React Router DOM the same
way that we do for anything else. We
just specify the things we want from it,
and then from the package name and strings.
Okay. And then also at the top, I
didn't add this as a slide, but go
ahead and import feed. Not found. This should
be under pages as well. And then profile.
So you might be wondering, this is pretty
strange because before we had all of that
imported inside of app, we would just render
either profile or feed inside of app. Now
we're taking all those components and bringing it
into our index dot JSX. So, this doesn't
seem to make sense because it's not actually
needed this high up the tree normally, but
with the router, we actually do need it
all the way up here inside index. Okay.
So now that we have this imported, next
step is a lot of code at once.
But this code is gonna be very standard.
And in fact, I think all the code
moving forward for the router isn't gonna change
much or diverge much from this. Especially these
first two lines, where we define a constant
called router, and then set this equal to
create browser router, which we just imported, called
on create routes from elements. And then inside
is where we actually handle all of the
logic for creating these routes. So I'm just
gonna type this in real quick. Create browser
router. Create routes from elements. And then inside
here, I'm gonna be putting my route components.
Okay. So how do we do these route
components? Sorry, one sec. I guess let me
explain this this code more in-depth. So what
we're doing is we're creating an opening route
tag. And this route takes in two props.
One being the error element, as well as
the element. The error element is just an
optional element that we can pass if we
reach some sort of error. The most important
thing is all of these routes need some
element, and we set this equal to whatever
element we wanna render. So, on the very
outside, we wanna render app. And that's what
we're doing, like, down in the code. We're
rendering app. But we've seen that there's some
behavior with the routes that determines which inner
components we wanna render. Based on the route,
we either wanna render feed or profile. And
that's why we nest both of these routes,
one for feed and one for profile, inside
of this outer route. So the route for
feed again was just the slash or the
base URL. And then the route for profile
was forward slash and then profile. So these
inner routes are taking in both path and
element as props. The outer one really only
needs element equals app. But because we want
to show a page when we reach some
path that's not either forward slash or forward
slash profile, then we have an error element
that displays the not found component. Okay. Stopping
here. Any questions about this? I'm gonna type
this in real quick too. Notice that the
inside routes are self closing while the outside
route is not. Okay. Should look good. Moving
on. We're not completely done yet. Even though
we've created the routing logic, or most of
it, we've created the router. We actually have
to put it somewhere so that it's actually
rendered. Yes. Yeah, so I think the error
element probably could go in here. I'm not
exactly too sure, but the reason why we
have App is either displayed, which displays feeder
profile, or nothing is displayed at all. So
if we had an error element here, we
sort of wanna catch any bad paths outside
and not inside. At least in this case,
because if it was inside, we would still
be rendering app. Yeah. Yeah. I think there
are probably better experts at React Router than
me. You can probably ask them. So this
next step is pretty simple. We just go
down where we're creating the roots and rendering.
And instead of rendering the app, I'm gonna
comment that out and then we're gonna render
router provider instead, which we imported from from
React RouterDOM. Router provider takes in a prop
called router, and we pass in the router
that we just created. Okay. So far, so
good? Alright. We're almost done. Or at least
we're done with the changes we need in
index. Jsx. The next thing is like taking
a step back and looking at the component
diagram. We have the nav bar on the
top and then the feed for the base
URL, and then we have the nav bar
on the top and then profile for a
slash profile. And then not found just takes
the whole page if we reach some path
that's not recognizable. So this means that we
probably want our navbar to lie inside of
app, right? Because when we're rendering not found,
we don't wanna render the navbar. So this
is a React Router tree, which you'll see
in the React Router lecture more. But this
left component is like the element that's rendered
normally. That's the error element. And then these
are the elements that are rendered based on
what path you're at. And so how do
you actually render one of these components inside
of app? And to do that, it's a
really simple change. We just go into app
dot j s x. At the top, import
something called outlet from React RouterDOM. And then
instead of having the feed, we just let
the router handle it based on the logic
inside index dot JSX. And then we just
create this outlet component. We don't even need
to feed anything. It just knows by itself.
And now let me take a look at
the website. Hopefully, we haven't changed the nav
bar yet, but hopefully if I go to
something like profile awesome. Okay. Now we see
the profile component. The feed is still working
if I go to the base URL. And
then if I visit something random, it's gonna
show the not found component. Okay. So that's
pretty much all we needed, at least for
the router. The last part being, we want
to be able to navigate to these different
pages without having to go to the search
bar and then change the URL. So to
do that, React Router also has links that
you can click to change the URL automatically.
And we're gonna add this to our nav
bar. So at the top in nav bar,
go ahead and import link from React Router
DOM. And then we want these links to
be like to the right here and here
for a home and profile. So I'll just
create two links. One link has its to
or, like, the URL that you wanna send
it to to be the base URL, and
it's gonna have the text home. And then
the other one is gonna send you to
profile. I'll wrap all this around in a
div. And then for sim CSS, I believe
inside the navbar.css, you can see navbar link
container. And then for each of these links,
I'm gonna give it some CSS as well.
Navbar link. Okay. Now if I refresh, press
home, it goes to home. Go to profile.
Okay. Awesome. So these buttons work. And then
finally, I'm just gonna get reset hard and
show you the final code. You can add
a bit more CSS to make it inlined.
Using the u inline block class. Okay. That's
a lot in router. Anyone have any questions
about router? How we implemented anything here? Okay.
Cool. Steps six through eight. I don't know
if we'll have time for all of this,
but steps six through eight are analogous to
steps this is a typo, two to four,
where you worked in feed. Js to create
these stories that display on the website. Inside
the feed, which is this outer component, you
render lots of individual single stories. And in
steps six through eight, we're going to create
a card component that contains a story as
well as all the comments related to that
story. And then we're gonna render the comments
very similarly to how we render the stories
inside Feed. Okay. So if you haven't already,
check out step six. Okay. Okay. So, yeah.
Our current component structure, at least at the
root of feed, is feed has single stories.
And now we wanna change it so that
feed renders a card, which then renders a
single story and then comments. This is so
that inside our feed, instead of rendering single
story then comments, single story comment, which doesn't
really make any sense, now we abstract away
this entire story and comment together into one
single card, and that way we can still
map all the stories inside our feed to
card elements, but then card elements map, or
I guess take that story object, render the
story of course, but also obtain the comments
for the story, and then render those as
well. I guess it's a bit confusing without
an example. Anyone unclear about what this is
doing? Yeah, before these green boxes were the
single stories. Now we're creating this card and
then the same single story component is being
rendered inside card. And then we're gonna render
comments down here. So for step six, I'll
let you guys work on this yourself. I
highly recommend going to oh, one quick thing.
Make sure to git pull because there have
been some changes to the branches since you
probably last checked them out. So at the
bottom, make sure you git pull. And to
make sure that you're up to date, you
can do git status, and it should say
that your branch is up to date with
origin slash w two step six. If you
have issues with this, also hop on the
queue. If you want help with this as
well, please hop on the queue. The staff
are not doing anything right now, so they
can help as much as you want. But,
yeah, once you've done that, search up to
do six or sorry, step six, and then
follow all the steps in here. I'll give
you around five minutes. Feel free to work
with the neighbors around you. Okay. I'm just
gonna go go ahead and start. Feel free
to tune me out if you're really close
and are about to finish. But the way
I'm gonna work through this is I'm just
gonna go through and implement this component tree.
So starting at the top, instead of having
the feed render these single stories, I wanna
render card instead. So to do that, I
can just import card, which is in the
modules folder. And now that now that I
have access to the card component and just
taking a look at card, it seems like
I can just replace single story with card
because the props that single story take are
actually the same as the props that card
takes. It's just ID, creator name, and content.
So if I do this now and take
a look at my website, I should see
nothing, which makes sense because I haven't implemented
the card component yet. As a placeholder, I'm
just gonna return hi. And then now I
see three highs. So the card component is
indeed rendering. I just now have to render
the single story and comments inside of the
card component. So let me see. Looking at
to dos or step six, everything that's left
is in card. So big picture, what are
we doing in card? We're creating a comments
state or a state that stores all the
comments related to a post. And then we're
gonna render that alongside the story that were
passed down. So to start, I'm actually gonna
do this part that we already have, which
is rendering the story. Single story takes in
these same props as card. So single story's
id prop is going to be our props
dot ID, which is passed down from feed
over here. And then the creator name is
equal to props dot creator name, and the
content equals props .content. And don't forget to
import your components. Okay. So it seems like
it's working now. All I've done is essentially
ignore the comments. I've essentially added a new
stage between the feed and single story. Now
it's rendering card, which renders single story. And
the remaining step is adding the comments into
the card. So for the comments, I'm gonna
have to use a state to store it.
So imports use state from React. And then
up here at the top of the component,
I will define the common state. So const
comments set comments equals use state. And just
like the feed, I'm gonna initialize this to
an empty array. So I'm really copying over
or doing everything analogous to, like, what I
did in the feed. And then in the
useEffects, when the component is first mounted, so
whenever one of these cards first mounts, I'm
gonna populate it with some comments or some
dummy comments. And for now, me just do
like sets comments to high, which means that
every single card that's rendered is gonna have,
its common state be equal to high after
the, after the mounting. And then down here,
just to see what it looks like, I'm
gonna JSON dot stringify this list, the common
state. I'll open the console. Identifier singer single
story has already been declared. Okay. Thanks. Okay.
Yeah. So now I see hi underneath every
single story. Okay. And then I'm just gonna
reset this and check out to see what
I would be doing inside this useEffects. So
if you could also do this, check out
step seven. Essentially, we're doing here is I've
created like a master list of all the
comments under any single post that ever existed.
So there's three comments that ever existed. The
first comment has a parent whose story has
ID one, ID one. And this corresponds to
this first story because as you see here,
we created the first story to have ID
one. And then the second comment has parent
id two, third comment has parent id three.
And the reason not all of these comments
are being rendered or set to the comment
state is because I'm filtering all of these
hard coded comments to find the comments that
have the same parents in here as the
ID of the story that it belongs to,
that it's nested under. So, for example, if
I'm here in this component, the props dot
id underscore id that's passed in is id
one. This is passed from the story, from
the feed component. And then inside the use
effects, I'm filtering for all comments that have
the parent ID ID one, which is just
this first comment. So that's why when I
set comments to this filter, it only returns
an array that's length one that contains this
first comment, which is why for all of
them you only see one comment. But in
reality, if I added another comment like this
with the same ID ID three and then
comment four. Now if I look under story
three, I should see two comments. Any questions
about how this worked? Okay. Let's move on
to step seven. This is just styling comments.
Oh, yes. Yeah. That's a good point. Great
point because it reminds me to point out
that the code here inside these two use
effects where we first load the stories and
load the comments, this is really bad code.
And we're just using this code to demonstrate
what it would look like on the website.
In reality, yeah, it would start off as
no comments and then inside this use effects
we actually like request the comments for a
given story. So it's not like hard coded
or anything like this. In workshop three, you'll
actually see us like making a request for
the real comments that we'll use. Yeah. So
this this code's pretty bad. It's just to
like demonstrate this point that we can render
stuff like this. Yeah. Like, I guess, I
don't know if this is what you're saying,
but we could like take take out this
like master list of comments, put it in
feed, and then filter there so that we
only pass through the correct comments. Yeah. There's
a lot of ways to do this. I
think this is how like workshop three starts
off with the code because it's like less
work to transition from this to what we
actually want. So that's just how we did
it. Yeah. So moving on to step seven.
I will probably walk through this code because
it's a shorter step. What we're doing in
this step is rendering each of the comments
inside of the comments state to single comment.
So it's really similar to what we did
with the feed where we rendered each of
the stories to a card which eventually got
rendered into a single story. So I'm first
going to go to card and I'll import
a single comment. And I'll import single comment.
And feel free to feel free to follow
along. So I've imported single comments which resides
here, which I'll pull up to the side.
Okay. Actually, okay. I've done one step for
you. Do the other two steps. I'll give
you guys like five minutes. Okay. If you're
still working, that's fine. Just hit me out.
Continuing off where we left. Yeah. So we
imported single comment and like we did in
feed where we take the story state, which
is an array, and then call the map
function to create like a list of components.
We're gonna do the same thing for the
comments. And essentially, I'm just gonna, like, I'm
just gonna copy and paste the code and
then change all the occurrences of stories with
comments. Sorry. Okay. I don't know what happened.
One cool trick is instead of resetting hard,
can get stash. And then I'm gonna that,
like, essentially resets the status of your branch.
I'm gonna check out the next step just
to cheat a bit. Okay. I'm gonna copy
that. And then I'll go back to the
old branch and then get stash pop so
it like restores the changes that I just
had. And now I'll just copy paste. Okay.
So, yeah. I'm doing the same thing as
I was in feed. The only difference is
now I'm rendering single comment. The ID is
the ID prop is gonna be whatever I
get or like the ID attribute inside the
objects. The creator name is also gonna be
found inside the objects, as well as the
contents. And I guess the parent isn't inside
there. You don't actually need to know the
parent for the single comment. So, yeah. Like,
if we look at the single comment component
now, we see that it takes in ID,
creator name, and content as props. Notice that
this is just a docstring. It doesn't actually
enforce any of the props that we passed
in, but it's always good practice to specify
what props you want each component to receive.
So now that we've rendered a single comment
with these props, let me take a look
at what it looks like here. And, of
course, instead of instead of rendering the JSON
stringify version of comments, I'm gonna render a
comments list. Okay. This bar actually shows up
inside of single comment, so we're on the
right track. The last part is just using
the props that we received from the parent
and then displaying the text. So on the
left, I wanna have the creator name. And
then let me save that. Okay. Cool. So
the creator name now shows up on the
left. And then here on the right side,
I want to render the content of the
comments. Okay. Yeah. It looks like it worked.
We have the creator name and then the
con content of the comment. Let's say I
create a new post. This also is looking
good to us because if we don't see
any comments underneath a story, essentially, if the
comment state is empty, then it should see
that the length of the comments list is
zero, and then return a div that says
no comments. So that's what's rendered inside of
this story because There's no comments inside the
card component that's being rendered here. Okay. That
concludes it for step seven. Any questions about
that? Okay. Get reset hard and then check
out step eight, please. And step eight is
now gonna be analogous to step four, which
was adding a new story. Now we're gonna
be adding a new comment. And this is
gonna appear instead of at the top of
the feed. This is gonna appear at the
bottom of the card component. So when you're
actually rendering it, I would just put like
the single or sorry, the new comment component
down here, and then pass in whatever props
you need to pass in. So I'll give
you guys around like seven minutes to do
this. This is gonna be a bit more
tricky. Also, just in case, run git status
in your terminal. And then if you don't
see that your branch is up to date,
please git reset hard and then git pull.
Okay. Let's get moving. I think by now
you've probably realized that like this all the
codes actually, you know, getting pretty messy. So
it's actually kinda hard to like figure out
where everything should go, how all these props
and states are passed down. Yeah. So it's
definitely very understandable if like all the code
is really confusing. I think it helps a
lot to get caught up as much as
you can later today. So that tomorrow when
we start workshop three, you'll come in at
least knowing all of the React stuff. Yeah.
So for step eight, starting in card dot
JSX, I'm going to import new comment. This
is a component inside of the new post
input dot jsx file. Okay. And then over
here, it's actually better practice to put the
callback functions and everything else, like, after the
useEffects. You wanna use useState and then useEffects
and then everything else. I'll just have it
up here. I'll refer to feed, which is
where we did our callback for adding a
new story. And again, the reason we need
a callback function is because the actual state
state setter is defined inside the card component.
And then when we're passing down all the
comments are in here. We have our set
state function also in here. But then underneath
it in a child component, we're gonna be
rendering the new post input, or the new
comments component. So this new comments component doesn't
actually know what to edit when you press
submit. That's why you need to somehow pass
down either the set state function for the
comments down to the new post input, or
you pass the callback function down that actually
runs the set state function. So I'm just
gonna copy what it looks like over here.
I'll create a call callback function called add
new comments, and it takes in a value
which is supposedly a comment value, and then
sets the comments to whatever the old value
was with the new value concatenated to the
end. Notice that this actually returns a new
array. In JavaScript dot concat will return a
new array, but dot push will modify the
old array. So dot concat is safe here.
And another way you could you could write
this, which is actually preferred, is list decomprehension,
I think. Decompressing that comments into a flattened
array and then appending value to the end.
But, yeah, this doesn't matter too much. Once
we've set our once we've created this callback
function, now we want to render the new
post or the new comment component. And I'm
gonna look at the documentation for new comment
to see what we wanna call the prop.
Luckily for us, under new comments, we know
that we wanna pass on a prop called
story id, which is equal to the props
dot id. Essentially, the id that we got
from the feed for the story, as well
as the add new comment function, which should
just be the callback function that we just
created, also called add new comments. So if
I render this now does it show up?
Oh, because it's not rendering anything. Yeah. So
what I wanna do is render something just
to see that it's working. I'll just, like,
do that. Cool. So it's rendering. I know
that this render is working. And now, what
I actually wanna render is a new post
input. And then inside the props for a
new post input, if I go up here
to see what it takes in, I see
that the props name is a story ID
and then on submit. And we can also
give a default text value. So default text
is doesn't really matter too much. I'm just
gonna say, oh, new comments. And then for
story ID, notice that this was passed in
from the new comment from the card dot
JSX file. When we render the new comment,
we passed in story ID. So this is
referenced using props. Story ID, which is the
name that we're passing here. And then the
on submit function or the on submit prop
is gonna be this function that we're gonna
create here or fully implement here, which is
add comments. And add comment for now, again,
same as with the stories, is gonna do
not much besides adding or calling the the
callback function that we passed from card and
then adding this new dummy comments. So the
content is whatever value was inside the input.
And then the creator name, anonymous ID, I'm
just gonna say random comments ID. And also
for comments, remember that the comments all need
a parent field, which refers to, like, what
their parent's ID is. So when I create
a new comments, I also want to have
this parent field. And how do I know
what parent it has? Well, it was passed
all the way down as a prop called
story ID. So with this, this looks like
a pretty good new comment. I have the
value of the text box, the story that
it falls under, my name, anonymous user, as
well as some random ID for the comment.
And if I now try to type something,
I forgot to say props.story ID. But if
I now try to type something and then
press submit. Changing this to add new comments.
It should work now, and I can add
new comments using this input. Okay. Yeah. Any
questions about this? As homework or practice or
whatever, step nine is not too difficult. It's
taking like our old component tree where we
have the single story, single comment, and the
new comment inside the card component. And then
combining the like these last two parts into
one single component. So that way it's like
more organized. We have the single or we
have the story with its own component, and
then we have the comments with its own
component instead of having a story component, comments
component, comments component. This is just messier. So
step nine is just doing that, combining it
into a single comments block component. And then
you can check out the completed code at
w two completes. Okay. This is probably one
of the most intense workshops slash lectures so
far. I definitely recommend going through it again
at home if you can. We have office
hours which are super, super, super helpful. All
of us are really, really we really wanna
help you understand this content because moving forward,
we're gonna be going quite fast, especially with
servers coming up in the next lecture. So
if you can nail down a solid understanding
of React as quick as possible, that's gonna
make your life a lot easier in the
next few lectures. So, yeah, please come to
office hours. If even if you're, like, not
even, like, a % sure, if you're 90%
sure about something, still pull up. We'll help
you get reach that 100% and hopefully that'll
improve your experience in the class. Yes. Also,
fill out the feedback form at weblab.isfeedback. If
you didn't fill that out for the first
lecture, if you could do that too, that'd
be great. Thanks.